Title: #100DaysOfCode: Commitment to Fluency
Date: 2018-09-11 18:40
Author: fuegalicious
Slug: 100daysofcode
Status: published

Every failure is a learning opportunity. After a lengthy interview
process, including a 5 hour remote "on-site" session, a potential dream
job (Machine Learning Advocate) decided not to move me forward. Though
they expressed confidence in my data ability and felt that I would be a
great fit for the team, their final decision ultimately came down to a
fluency issue. In the take-home, I'd not had this issue because I was
refactoring existing code; in the on-site, I'd performed at 1/3rd the
speed of the typical applicant - 1/8th the speed of the strongest
candidates! Their concern in hiring me was that I might not be able to
keep up.

As a former educator (and aspiring conference speaker) in the process of
submitting [talks on cognitive theory for professional
development](https://www.papercall.io/speakers/mutter/speaker_talks/90817-teaching-yourself-to-learn-again-cognitive-theory-for-professional-development),
I was all-too-familiar with the role fluency plays in developing
expertise. While the feedback was devastating to my ego, especially as
one of the many programmers struggling through imposter syndrome, it was
the type of guidance we self-taught coders *crave*. They were confident
in my conceptual understanding of machine learning! Take ***that***,
imposter syndrome.

One problem was that much of my learning and development was done in
Spyder (run locally) or Google Cloud Platform. None of the code I wrote
got uploaded to GitHub and I diligently deleted my GCP resources after
every project to avoid draining my free credits. In addition to this, I
had been balancing my full-time job with these passion projects, often
coding in hour-long chunks at 4:30am or 8pm, which made it easy to get
off-track and scattered. I've become fairly well-rounded as a
programmer, but I needed to focus on my primary domains in order to
strengthen fluency before moving too far forward.

I structured this commitment to fluency around the \#100DaysOfCode
challenge. People often post about their progress with the
\#100DaysOfCode challenge, and I'll engage with that community
occasionally. However, the feedback I received tells me that what I need
to focus on now is fluency and *evidence* of that fluency, for those
times that I choke on anxiety and need to prove my skill set in other
ways. That evidence is hosted on GitHub Project Pages, accessible
through <https://mutterberg.github.io/> (which currently redirects
to <https://datadev.me/>).
