Title: #allin216: Machine Learning
Date: 2018-03-17 09:42
Author: marissautterberg
Category: Data Science, Project-Based Learning
Tags: Cleveland, Data Engineering, Deep Learning, education, Hadelin de Ponteves, Kirill Eremenko, learning, Machine Learning, Professional Development, Udemy
Slug: allin216-machine-learning
Status: published

My wonderful boyfriend, the experienced Network Engineer, loves to tease
me about my modern tendencies in online learning. I am his AWS-xpert.
(Hard eye roll from me.) He prefers the simplest solution to any
problem, but I have the luxury of not being bound by client timelines
and can take time to explore any rabbit hole that may prove useful. He
and I were both learning Python at the same time, but he applies it to
Ansible and I use it for data analysis, increasingly in Jupyter
notebooks on a Google Cloud Datalab environment or AWS SageMaker. I'm a
bit of a glutton for punishment, so I want to learn enough to be
conversationally competent about WAY too many things. For me, it ties in
with my desire to work well on teams. Instead of being content with my
high school HTML/CSS knowledge circa 2000, I chose to take a Full Stack
Web Development course from Colt Steele. And then I added his Advanced
Web Developer Bootcamp course out of personal interest generated by the
first course, which had already been fairly comprehensive in its own
right.

Stepping sideways to the reason I began reviewing web development in the
first place, Data Science, and a similar pattern repeats. In pursuit of
a School Quality Review position, I took an online course in SAS on the
recommendation of my university advisor. I'd learned R for statistics in
an undergraduate statistics course taken as part of my math educator
license requirements in Utah while working toward my M.Ed. coursework.
While I found SAS to be steps below the capabilities I had remembered
from R, it felt far superior to the Excel work favored by my employing
school district. Learning SAS reminded me how much I love programming.
But it also opened my eyes to the existence of Data Science, for which I
am most grateful.

The phrase "Data Science" did not exist when I graduated from university
with a degree in Mathematics, and statistics was considered by
professors in my program to be dry and volatile in comparison with
applied mathematics. As a 22-year-old with undiagnosed ADHD and just
wanting to enjoy the beauty that my home (the amazing West Coast states)
had to offer, I thought I would NEVER want an office job. So I avoided
statistics, research, and anything that might include walls and a desk
at all costs. Even during the economic recession, I worked mostly
hands-on jobs that permitted constant activity: Outdoor Science School
Instructor, Lifeguard, coaching various sports teams, and eventually
settling into classroom teaching. It was in this most recent/stable
career that my ADHD was finally diagnosed and successfully managed. I
found myself enjoying the uninterrupted, structured parts of my job more
and more.

My brain had been stewing in frustration with the hypocrisy apparent in
the K-12 education system status quo to the point that I was ready for a
career change. My master's degree is in Educational Research and
Assessment with a certificate in Data-Based Decision Making, so I was
initially looking for a research position within the education system.
The more I looked into the career change landscape, the more I realized
how few research positions were available outside of academia. The SAS
course had piqued my interest in considering statistics/CS, so I allowed
my search to expand.

Holy moly! What I found outside of academia was overwhelming. Data
analyst, data scientist, a whole slew of data engineering positions that
could also qualify as software engineering positions...the world was my
oyster as a data-head. As a mathematically-adept individual with an
affinity for new frameworks, the first difficulty was in identifying a
direction. I am an experienced learner, but I know well enough to
prioritize what I choose to learn and in what order. To give myself
structure in this, I figured a review of my first statistical
programming language would be a good start. So looking up courses in R
on Udemy is what led me directly to Machine Learning. I chose a Python/R
course that seemed reputable and comprehensive. The name? ***[Machine
Learning A-Z: Hands-On Python & R in Data
Science]{style="text-decoration:underline;"}*** by Kirill Eremenko and
Hadelin de Ponteves.

The first few modules of the course were very familiar and mostly served
to add the Python language to my list of new loves. Regression had
already been a significant focus of my university coursework in
statistics. Classification was the first new concept for me, and these
modules opened my eyes to the applicability of data science outside of
enterprise. Then Clustering, Association Rule Learning, Reinforcement
Learning, Natural Language Processing, and Deep Learning...the further I
progressed, the deeper I fell. I was hooked.

![Udemy Machine Learning A-Z -
UC-ULOBCEJM](https://utterbergdatadev.files.wordpress.com/2018/03/udemy-machine-learning-a-z-uc-ulobcejm.jpg){.alignnone
.size-full .wp-image-1217 width="1600" height="1194"}

By the end of the course, I had branched out into cloud development
coursework and chosen a long-term career goal: Data Engineering,
preferably finding a niche in which I can use data and development to
benefit learners in underprivileged environments. Because I am finally
learning that working within the broken education system is not the only
way I can try to help improve the situation and opportunities for youth.
It is definitely going to be a long road with many wrong turns and dead
ends along the way, but I have a growth mindset toward myself and toward
my frustrated students. And like my city's team, I am \#allin216.
