Title: GiveCamp2018
Date: 2018-07-23 15:04
Author: marissautterberg
Category: Development
Tags: Professional Development, Programming, web development, WordPress
Slug: givecamp2018
Status: published

Over the weekend, I volunteered at an event called [Cleveland Give
Camp](http://clevelandgivecamp.org/). I would consider this my second
social-impact hackathon, though it had a very different dynamic from
[GiveBackHackCLE](http://utterbergdatadev.com/2018/05/14/give-back-hack/).
While the focus of Give Back Hack was on spontaneity and inspiration to
drive individuals to pitch ideas for development or join in others'
efforts, Give Camp selects existing nonprofits from the community to
help them establish or improve their online presence and service
platforms.

Some people do literally camp outside of the venue during Give Camp
weekend. This may be part of the reason I felt so comfortable there. It
could also be that the entire event had a warm, collaborative vibe.
Teams are pre-assigned based on what the nonprofits will need & which
skills the volunteers register. My team consisted of two Wordpress
specialists, two computer science students, a skilled project manager,
and two representatives from the nonprofit Cleveland Christian Home, an
organization dedicated to rehabilitation services for boys struggling
through abuse, trauma, or a variety of mental illnesses. Their passion
for service was moving and the stories they shared made the project all
the more fulfilling.

![](https://utterbergdatadev.files.wordpress.com/2018/07/fb_img_1532285942590.jpg){.size-full}

Though I've had personal blogs and portfolios on Wordpress for the past
10 years and did check out a few Wordpress developer meetups, I hadn't
ever considered Wordpress to be more than a pretty face. In seeing the
struggles other teams had when they ran up against the limitations of
relational databases in Wordpress, the message that there was some depth
to that rabbit hole was driven home. It seemed like those projects
would've been easily handled by Django's back end handlers, but it took
heavy support from the event organizers to complete that particular
project. Theming for a pretty front end is so easy on Wordpress that it
reels you in, but it really does seem to suffer some limitations as a
trade-off for that low barrier to entry.

Our project, however, was a clearly defined lift & shift. The CEO did
not feel that the site was welcoming, so we worked in a nicer theme.
They also wanted forms for job applications on the site, so we installed
(and taught them to use) a form-builder plugin.

In short, I found Cleveland Give Camp 2018 to be a worthwhile
experience. The impact and collaboration far outweighed the temporary
strain of a long weekend. Other areas conduct Give Camps independently
so there's no central site I can send you to for information if you're
interested, but check the interwebs to find one near you.
