Title: Learning from My First Tech Pitch: The One Thing I Did Right
Date: 2018-04-09 05:51
Author: marissautterberg
Category: Data Science, Development, Inspiration, Project-Based Learning
Tags: Automation, Biometrics, Civic Tech, Ed Tech, education, Education Technology, Entrepreneur, Hacking, Hardware, IoT, Pitch, Tech
Slug: learning-from-my-first-tech-pitch-the-one-thing-i-did-right
Status: published

I made a lot of mistakes in my first tech pitch, but I wouldn't change
much looking back. The lessons I've learned have been invaluable. Most
of these insights will help me improve for the next time I pitch this or
another project, but the one thing I did right and will definitely do
again is this: I submitted my idea. Period. Without thought as to
whether or not it was good enough to win.<!--more-->

To be fair, the "reckless pitch" mentality was mostly a function of my
naivete to the gravity of the competition. I didn't realize the
competition had been announced in the local newspaper ([which it
was](http://www.cleveland.com/business/index.ssf/2018/03/civic_tech_data_pitch_competit_1.html)),
I didn't think I'd make it to the finals (which I did), and
IÂ *definitely* didn't think I'd get a chance to speak about it in front
of a judging panel with clipboards and a rubric (which was also the
case) - all I knew was that my idea addressed a pain point affecting
many people in the education profession. The selection committee decided
my pitch was well-formed enough with sufficient potential value to merit
a deeper explanation in front of the panel.

Though my pitch was flawed in many ways, the experience of preparing for
and participating in the final round of this pitch competition will
drive me to progress this project. I realized through this process that
I really am passionate about leveraging technology to improve education
beyond the profitable sectors that are already being exploited in Ed
Tech. To this point, I'd like to close this post in the same way that I
closed my speech:

"I submitted my pitch under no pretense that I'd win development funds,
though that would be wonderful. So I'm grateful to the selection
committee for permitting me the platform to advocate for student safety
in front of an audience that understands how much more valuable
attendance data (which we already collect) could be if we were to
leverage advances in Big Data methods & technology to make it more
usable in responsive and proactive ways. My colleagues and I have many
frustrations with the status quo; this is one conversation that I
believe is beneficial to pursue and to develop. Thank you."
