Title: Paranormal Hacktivity
Date: 2018-02-24 19:05
Author: marissautterberg
Category: Development, Project-Based Learning
Tags: Amazon Web Services, AWS, Blog, Blogging, Cleveland, coding, Community, Competition, Computer, Computer Science, Computers, CS, CSS, Data, Data Analysis, Data Engineering, Data Science, Debugging, desktop app development, education, Encouragement, Energy, Free, hack, hackathon, HTML, HTML/CSS, HTTP, iOS 11, IT, JavaScript, JS, Kaggle, Language, learning, Linux, mobile app development, Morning, Morning Grind, Morning Routine, Mornings, Motivation, Ohio, Online, Online Learning, Open Source, Passion, PC, PCs, PHP, Portfolio, Practice, Productivity, Professional Development, Professional Learning Communities, Professional Learning Community, Professional Learning Network, Professional Learning Networks, Programming, Programming Language, programming languages, Project, Python, Self-Motivated, Self-Taught, software development, software engineering, SQL, Swift 4, teaching, Time Management, Web App, Web App Developer, Web App Development, Web Application, Web Applications, Web Apps, Web Developer, web development, Website Application, Website Applications, website development, WordPress
Slug: paranormal-hacktivity
Status: published

So...I slept through some crucial hours of [my hackathon last
weekend](http://hack.cwru.edu/). But it's ok! Much of the motivation for
my participation was exploration and learning. Since I maximized that, I
felt pretty satisfied with the experience.

First Impressions
=================

\[gallery ids="1040,1042,1050,1051,1047,1044" type="slideshow"\]

First of all, the event was FREE - so even if all I did was show up and
mooch the sponsor resources, it would still have been beyond worth the
investment. Second, I met some bootcamp students that were my age
(rather than the mean/mode age of participants, which was probably in
the late teens - early 20s) and really engaging. Having people to talk
with while working made the weekend outright fun. I found myself
spending longer on campus than I'd planned and working longer into the
night than I'd anticipated. Since I ended up not being able to complete
my project, it could have been a discouraging or frustrating experience.
But having that shared sentiment with other participants and more or
less making friends, I found myself repeatedly saying how excited I was,
how much fun I was already having, and how "even if I get zero
functionality out of my hack, this has already been worth it."
Programming is inherently enjoyable for me, but having that social
aspect in the process raised my attitude to new levels.

Woke Tech
=========

\[gallery ids="1049,1048,1045" type="slideshow"\]

Fully aware of my inadequacy in comparison with [energetic young nerds
studying computer science full-time and not multi-tasking with external
employment](https://hackcwru-v.devpost.com/submissions?ref_content=winner_announcement_email&ref_feature=engagement&ref_medium=email&utm_campaign=winner_announcement_email&utm_medium=email&utm_source=winner_announcement_email?),
I skipped past the main category prizes and scrolled through the more
amusing and obscure prizes. Not that I was gunning for a medal, but that
curiosity ended up stoking my creativity.

Through some back-and-forthing with the history teacher across the hall
from me, I settled on a web or mobile app that would help me respond to
"Miss, what should my career be?" The project is not live because I
spent most of my weekend learning Amazon Web Services tools instead of
trying to build it with tools I'd already learned, but the end of the
hackathon is definitely not the end of this project for me. As design
and development are wont to do, the details have evolved since my
initial idea. At this point, my hope for the app is that students and
career changers will be able to sign in and save preferences; these
preferences will be used to return clusters of major/career suggestions
based on compatibility with stated preferences. The tie-in to
encouraging women to consider STEM careers is that it would order the
suggestions in each cluster by listing careers in which women are
underrepresented near the top of women's suggestions in that cluster,
and vice versa for men.

I believe very strongly that gender equity is not just about steering
women toward STEM, but also about making it socially acceptable for men
to hold traditionally female careers. Rather than relying on gimmicks to
draw in more women applicants, I hope to contribute in some small way to
an opening of opportunity based on interest rather than outdated social
norms. Men can be kindergarten teachers, too. And really, some of the
best middle school teachers I've known have been men. We talk a lot in
academia about the feminization of education and about the harm caused
by a dearth of male role models in schools, yet it remains one of the
more skewed professions.

Lessons Learned
===============

\[gallery ids="1052,1046,1013,994" type="slideshow"\]

I had done some light research on others' lessons from their first
hackathon and noticed that I fell prey to many of the same mistakes they
warned against: I tried too complex a hack for the timeframe, I focused
more on making it "finished" than just getting it done, and I also did
this while needing to keep up with weekend work for grad school and my
job!

Regardless of my dev's performance (or [current lack
thereof](https://github.com/mUtterberg)), I learned yet again that you
will still benefit from new experiences even if you are afraid you'll be
in over your head. Not only did I learn specific, actionable
deficiencies in my skillset, I also discovered some tools that I didn't
know existed but that I was immediately passionate about. Whatever my
future holds, I am excited to continue learning and applying new tools
as they emerge.
