Title: What is going on here?
Date: 2017-12-30 17:20
Author: marissautterberg
Category: Data Science, Development
Tags: Blog, Blogging, coding, CSS, Data, desktop app development, Ed Policy, Ed Research, education, education policy, education professional, education research, educator, featured, Freelance, Freelancing, HTML, HTML/CSS, HTTP, intro, introduction, iOS 11, IT, JavaScript, JS, M.Ed., Machine Learning, mobile app development, PHP, Portfolio, Professional Development, Programming, programming languages, Python, R, Ruby, SAS, software development, software engineering, SQL, Swift 4, teacher, teaching, TeX, web development, website development, WordPress
Slug: purpose1
Status: published

#### General purpose

This site is primarily a portfolio to showcase online services offered
through Utterberg Data & Development (U:D/D) but the blog component in
particular is a platform for documenting my experience with various
languages, programs, and projects.

#### Motivation

My background includes (among other things) a B.S. in Mathematics from a
liberal arts college and an M.Ed. in Education Research from a large
city university. In building an Utterberg brand, my goal is to combine a
variety of my skills and passions into a more cohesive vision. In order
to achieve this, I have been extending my formal programming experience
(HTML, CSS, JavaScript, R, Maple, C++/Visual Basic, and SQL) with
self-directed reviews of these and with online coursework in
languages/platforms that are new for me (SAS, Python, Swift, PHP, and
Ruby). One of the reasons I became a teacher was the joy of helping
people, so hopefully this digital paper trail will prove helpful to
someone out there.

#### Professional development goals

My contract for the 2017-2018 school year is with the Cleveland
Metropolitan School District (CMSD) as a high school math teacher.
Unless the district explicitly approves an internal transition to a data
science or research administration position, I am committed to
completing this contract. However, I am increasingly certain that
classroom teaching is not an effective use of my skills, nor is it a
sustainable career for my hyper-analytical personality. If I am still
teaching full-time in the 2018-2019 school year, it will be because of
user error, not by design.

Though I am leaving the profession in this capacity, I do have a fierce
passion for our education system. My main focus is on the fundamental
disconnect between how it is currently structured and what structure it
needs to have in order to meet more modern needs. My dream would be to
gain employment that would allow me to research quantitative and
qualitative trends in this domain, publish commentary or recommend
models based on the results, and thus contribute to cultural or
political improvements in the way we grow the minds of our youth and
train them for effective participation in civics and the economy. I want
to explore and explain why so many teachers are leaving the profession
for other sectors because I believe the same underlying causes are doing
a disservice to our students and to our culture.

My pragmatic side realizes the improbablity of arriving at this goal
immediately, but the implementation of data science and analytics must
be second nature in order for me to structure and perform such research
to appropriately high standards. **I already have a solid foundation in
human empathy, object-oriented programming, project management, and
mathematical modeling; my next step is to build experience in applied
data science or software engineering to tie these skills together.**

*Notes: I am also handy with WordPress, G Suite, and Office365. A
short-term option of mine is to freelance in web development and app
integration consulting on the side or in the summer. This is mostly out
of need, though I do enjoy building and maintaining websites. My other
"for fun" project is Linux. Two old PCs are still alive and kicking in
my office, so I have been playing with different Linux distributions and
hope to find more time to spend on that project this summer.*
