Title: Snow Delay = Data + Dev
Date: 2018-01-08 08:33
Author: marissautterberg
Category: Data Science, Development, Inspiration, Project-Based Learning
Tags: Blog, Blogging, Bootcamp, Cleveland, coding, Computer Science, CS, Data, Early Riser, education, Education Profesional, Flexible Location, Freelance, Full stack, gratitude, Hands-On, Home office, HTML, IT, Late start, Morning, Morning Grind, Morning Routine, Mornings, Ohio, Portfolio, Productivity, Professional Development, Programming, programming languages, Python, R, Realtime Board, Snow, Snow day, software development, software engineering, Sunrise, teacher, teaching, Udemy, Update, Web Developer, web development, website development, Winter, Work from home, Working from home
Slug: snow-delay-data-dev
Status: published

On a typical day during the school year, I wake up at 4:30am to start my
morning routine:  
Make coffee & breakfast, check emails and respond as necessary, then
spend the rest of the morning finishing up prep work for that day's
classroom activities.  
For the past two weeks, I have been on winter break. My morning routine
did not change much, it just started at 6:30 or 7:30 instead.

Today was to be our first day back to work, but nature had other plans.
My mother had been visiting from Portland (Oregon), so I dropped her off
at the airport on my way to work. The roads were thick with slush and
progress was slow. No more than 5 minutes after I'd hugged her goodbye
and wished her a safe trip home, the bluetooth on my car started
ringing. "All CMSD staff are on a 2-hour delay due to current and
anticipated hazardous driving conditions."

HALLELUJAH! Home I went.

My home office has big whiteboards, bulletin boards, and clipboards
hanging on several walls. I use [Realtime
Board](https://realtimeboard.com) to ensure access to project tracking
is never a deterrent to progress on my goals, but getting to literally
mark my progress on my "tally clipboards" is one of the highlights of
going home after a long remote work session. I love working in my home
office.

\[caption id="attachment\_263" align="alignnone"
width="3264"\]![](https://utterbergdatadev.files.wordpress.com/2018/01/img_4510.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-263 width="3264" height="2448"} There's something so
satisfying about marking tallies on my clipboards.\[/caption\]

The two clipboards closest to my desk are the personal/professional
development projects about which I am most excited. These two courses
are hosted on Udemy and pertain to broadening the marketable tech skills
I can offer. On the left, we have "[The Web Developer
Bootcamp](https://www.udemy.com/the-web-developer-bootcamp/learn/v4/overview)"
taught by [Colt Steele](https://www.linkedin.com/in/coltsteele/), who
used to teach in-person bootcamps in Silicon Valley. While the majority
of my web development experience is front-end, I absolutely love coding
and the nittier, grittier side of back-end development. This course is
engaging and insightful. It was so informative and watchable that I
found myself browsing his other courses to see what else I could learn
from Colt. When I saw that he teaches "[The Advanced Web Developer
Bootcamp](https://www.udemy.com/the-advanced-web-developer-bootcamp/learn/v4/overview),"
I purchased it without hesitation. This also gives me a course/project
to look forward to over the summer.

On the right, I am tracking my review/extension project. Though I
already had some experience using R in a statistical context from my
graduate coursework at Utah State University, I wanted to refresh myself
on the syntax with some structured practice. I chose "[Machine Learning
A-Z: Hands-On Python & R in Data
Science](https://www.udemy.com/machinelearning/learn/v4/overview)"
because it offered the review I sought, broadened my programming
background by introducing Python to me in a familiar context, and
included projects that would allow me to explore Machine Learning in a
variety of contexts. This course is taught by [Kirill
Eremenko](https://www.linkedin.com/in/keremenko/) and [Hadelin de
Ponteves](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hadelin-de-ponteves-1425ba5b/); I
highly recommend it for anyone interested in Machine Learning and data
science.

So while I did not have time to makeÂ *much* progress on these courses
during my 2-hour snow delay, I am grateful for every opportunity to work
on these personal/professional development projects. I am working
full-time, taking 6 graduate credits to finish up my M.Ed. in Education
Research, and trying to balance all of that with my life and goals. I
will take all the spare time I can get!
