Title: XP Headache Turned Linux Love
Date: 2017-12-30 13:40
Author: marissautterberg
Category: Project-Based Learning
Tags: Arch, Arch Linux, Build, coding, Command Line, Computer, Computer Science, Computers, CS, Debugging, Desktop, desktop app development, distributions, Distro, Distros, Fedora, intro, introduction, IT, Linux, Linux distributions, Linux Mint, LMDE, LMDE 2, LMDE2, Lubuntu, Mint, OS, PBL, PC, PCs, Portfolio, Project, Puppy, Red Hat, Salvage, sysadmin, Ubuntu, Update
Slug: xp-headache-linux-love
Status: published

Pre-Processing:
===============

After undergrad, I moved to Southern California. As a going-away
present, my mom got me my first laptop. The price had dropped enough as
they became more popular and I was only taking enough possessions to
fill up my 2007 Subaru Forester. My PC desktop got boxed up for storage
and lost to history for a solid decade.

In 2016, I moved from Salt Lake City to Cleveland. It was love at first
sight and I decided to stay forever. I booked a one-way flight to
Portland for Christmas, then packed anything of mine that my mom had
been holding onto in a rental truck. She and I drove for 4 days
(including all night the first and third) through winter storms and a
bizarre traffic incident in Nebraska involving an overturned cattle
truck and a small but aggressive herd of frightened bovine.

I didn't think too much about what I'd held onto nor why, but I figured
I should probably at least try to get the music and research papers from
college backed up if the hard drive wasn't toast.

\[gallery ids="597,599,600" type="slideshow"\]

Moving in usable items for the kitchen and office were my top priority,
so I did nothing with the tower until a year later. In December 2017, on
my winter break from my teaching job, I opened up the tower and removed
as much dust as I could see. A friend's dad had rescued an HDTV from his
neighbor's curbside trash pile as a housewarming gift, but I don't watch
much tv so it became my de facto monitor.

My boyfriend the tech expert prepared me for the possibility that it
wouldn't turn on and the internet prepared me for the possibility that
it would literally explode, so I put on some safety goggles and pressed
the power button.

ELATION! JOY! RECOGNITION! Not only did it turn on long enough for 12-14
hours of backing up files, but the hard drive has been in good enough
shape to burn ISO after ISO to DVD for me. Operation Linux was a go.

Â 

User Errors:
============

\[gallery ids="598,556" type="slideshow"\]

Since I did not feel like moving the whole setup downstairs to hardwire
to the modem but my laptop lacked the ability to burn discs, my process
consisted of me downloading distros from my MacBook Air, saving them to
a flash drive, and then burning the discs in XP. This arrangement would
have been fine if XP came with software that was appropriate for the
task. What I didn't realize for a solid month of failed boot after
failed boot was that the discs I'd been burning with "Drag & Drop
CD/DVD" were not recognized as bootable media by the processor.

Many a DVD-R was sacrified to my ignorance, but I had plenty to spare. I
tried changing the settings from 9660 to Joliet, Mode 1 to Mode 2,
closed, verified, etc...nothing I tried seemed to make a difference. At
one point, I accidentally found the F key that reset XP to its factory
settings and got to watch all sorts of games and programs reinstall: Age
of Empires II, Click to DVD, AOL & Internet Free Trial!

\[wpvideo jwoFfinP\]

Worth it.

The Game Changer:
=================

Although the native software on my XP for burning CD/DVD/data discs
indicated 9660 and Joliet as options, repeated failure booting from the
discs I had been burning drove me to download some of the freeware
recommended by Linux users. My system lacked a .NET support software to
run the first program that I tried. Due to the cumbersome process of
downloading files via my MacBook Air onto flash drives for every single
attempted software, I decided to try a different ISO burning software
rather than spend the time troubleshooting the first one.

That second program, ImgBurn, worked beautifully. Every iso that I've
burned to disc since then has booted properly, allowing me to finally
start playing with the distros I'd been collecting.

\[gallery ids="559,560" type="slideshow"\]

Exploring 32 Bit Distros in 2018:
=================================

#### Toy \#1 - Linux Mint 18.3 xfce 32 bit

![img\_4559](https://utterbergdatadev.files.wordpress.com/2018/02/img_4559.jpg){.alignnone
.size-full .wp-image-557 width="3264" height="2448"}

The iso that happened to be the first successful burn was Linux Mint
18.3 xfce 32 bit.

My boyfriend's reaction when I texted him in excitement that I'd finally
fixed my burn issue was, "Fingers crossed you have driver support." He
is a highly skilled and sought-after Network Engineer with much more
experience in sysadmin than I will ever need, so I figured Mint would
probably not end up as my favorite. His feedback aside, Mint was clunky
and slow from the start. I may take another look at this distro some
other time, but my first impression was that it was nothing special.

#### Toy \#2 - Ubuntu 16.04.3 Desktop i386

Ubuntu looks nice, but it was INSANELY slow to boot. My poor old 32 bit
processor needs something a little slimmer. I did go back the following
day for a second look at Ubuntu just to make sure, but it doesn't seem
to fit my needs right now.

\[gallery ids="558,589,562,595,563" type="slideshow"\]

#### Toy \#3 - ArchLinux 2018.02.01 x86\_64

I thought I read somewhere that Arch Linux x86\_64 had an ARM option on
boot, but that didn't seem to be the case in reality. No can handle,
senor. Maybe when my mom hands over the 64 bit PC (circa 2010?) that is
currently boxed up under her bed.

![](https://utterbergdatadev.files.wordpress.com/2018/02/img_4568.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-574 width="3264" height="2448"}

#### Toy \#4 - Lubuntu 16.04.3 Desktop i386

THIS. This was love at first sight. Light, fast, intuitive...everything
I want in a play distro. It's been a good 15 years or so since I've
played around with command line, so there's nothing specific that I need
in the way of software, but Lubuntu seems like a good balance.

\[gallery ids="575,577,591,579,583,585,587,586" type="slideshow"\]

#### Toy \#5 - LMDE 2 Mate 201701 32 bit

LMDE is supposedly lighter and faster than Mint, but I'll have to set
them head-to-head to see it. I was hoping for more out of LMDE and was
underwhelmed by this distro. However, LibreOffice Math sounds highly
appealing and could be a game-changer if there's any way to improve the
operating speed.

\[gallery ids="578,576,580,582,581" type="slideshow"\]

The Final Call:
===============

Though I'm not ready to commit to a full install just yet (as a
full-time high school math teacher and part-time graduate student my
play time is pretty limited) I will probably go with Lubuntu. Later this
month, I'd like to spend some time comparing Mint/LMDE and Lubuntu more
intentionally; I want to make sure I can articulate the strengths and
weaknesses in more detail than "I fell in love with Lubuntu."

But for now, I am in love with Lubuntu.
