Title: Dao De Data, Chapter 2
Date: 2018-09-30 15:11
Author: fuegalicious
Category: Project-Based Learning
Slug: 1621
Status: draft

With version:

> As soon as beauty is known by the world as beautiful, it becomes ugly.
> As soon as virtue is being known as something good, it becomes evil.
>
> Therefore being and non-being give birth to each other. Difficult and
> easy accomplish each other. Long and short form each other. High and
> low distinguish each other. Sound and tone harmonize each other Before
> and after follow each other as a sequence.
>
> Realizing this, the saint performs effortlessly according to the
> natural Way without personal desire, and practices the wordless
> teaching thru one’s deeds.
>
> The saint inspires the vitality of all lives, without holding back. He
> nurtures all beings with no wish to take possession of. He devotes all
> his energy but has no intention to hold on to the merit. When success
> is achieved, he seeks no recognition. Because he does not claim for
> the credit, hence shall not lose it.
>
> (Source: <http://www.with.org/tao_te_ching_en.pdf>)

Legge version:

> **1.** All in the world know the beauty of the beautiful, and in doing
> this they have (the idea of) what ugliness is; they all know the skill
> of the skilful, and in doing this they have (the idea of) what
> the want of skill is.
>
> **2.** So it is that existence and non-existence give birth the one to
> (the idea of) the other; that difficulty and ease produce the one (the
> idea of) the other; that length and shortness fashion out the one the
> figure of the other; that (the ideas of) height and lowness arise from
> the contrast of the one with the other; that the musical notes
> and tones become harmonious through the relation of one with another;
> and that being before and behind give the idea of one
> following another.
>
> **3.** Therefore the sage manages affairs without doing anything, and
> conveys his instructions without the use of speech.
>
> **4.** All things spring up, and there is not one which declines to
> show itself; they grow, and there is no claim made for their
> ownership; they go through their processes, and there is no
> expectation (of a reward for the results). The work is accomplished,
> and there is no resting in it (as an achievement).
>
> The work is done, but how no one can see;  
> 'Tis this that makes the power not cease to be.
>
> (Source: <http://classics.mit.edu/Lao/taote.1.1.html>)

Mitchell version:

> When people see some things as beautiful,  
> other things become ugly.  
> When people see some things as good,  
> other things become bad.
>
> Being and non-being create each other.  
> Difficult and easy support each other.  
> Long and short define each other.  
> High and low depend on each other.  
> Before and after follow each other.
>
> Therefore the Master  
> acts without doing anything  
> and teaches without saying anything.  
> Things arise and she lets them come;  
> things disappear and she lets them go.  
> She has but doesn't possess,  
> acts but doesn't expect.  
> When her work is done, she forgets it.  
> That is why it lasts forever.
>
> (Source: <http://thetaoteching.com/taoteching2.html>)

My version:

The moment we publish analyses,  
our biases are vulnerable to critique.  
In recognizing skilled application,  
we become more cognizant of mis-handling.

Opinion and abstention are complementary reactions.  
Rigor and naivete are each appropriate in their time.  
Verbosity and summarization...  
Generous and conservative estimates...  
Interpolation and extrapolation...

Therefore, the master practicioner does not force analyses and...
